

## Warmup: a TLCS protocol from general-purpose NIZK proofs 
Consider the following protocol.
The generic party $i=1,...$ does the following. It computes $PK_i=g^{sk_i}$, where $sk_i$ is randomly chosen in $Z_q$. 
It chooses random $t_i$ from $Z_p$ and computes $T_i=g_2^{t_i}$, $Z_i=e(H(C),PK_L)^{t_i}$ and $y_i=H(Z_i) \oplus sk_i$.
The party $i$ posts on the blokchain:
$(T_i, y_i)$. Note that $Z_i$ is not posted, and the honest party is required to delete $Z_i, t_i,sk_i$ from his memory, so that until time $C$ nobody can get $sk_i$.

At some point, the public key construction phase terminates and no new party can participate.
Then, the public key $PK$ is set to $PK=\prod_i PK_i=g^{sk}$, where $sk=\sum_i sk_i \mod q$.


When the secret $SK_C=H(C)^{sk_L}$ of LOE is published at time $C$, anyone can publicly do the following based on the information posted on the blockchain.
For any $i$ compute $e(SK_C,T_i)=Z_i$ and then can compute $sk_i=y_i \oplus H(Z_i)$.

From all $sk_i$'s, anyone can then recover $sk=\sum_i sk_i \mod q$.

The security here guarantees that if only a single party is trusted in having deleted his memory at the of the computation, then the secret key $sk$ corresponding to $PK$ is protected until time $C$ assuming that the majority of LOE members  are honest.
That is, the only added assumption beyond LOE is that there is a single honest party. Observe that,  since anyone can publicly participate in the protocol (that is the committee allows on-fly join), if someone does not trust the system can decide on participating in the protocol freely.

To be able to decrypt we need to assume that the values $y_i$'s posted on the blockchain are computed correctly according to the above procedure, so each $y_i$ needs to be accompained with a ZK proof of well-formedness, that is a proof that the tuple $(g_2,PK_L,C,T_i,PK_i,y_i)$ is such that there exist values $t_i\in Z_p$, $sk_i\in Z_q$ such that $T_i=g_2^{t_i}$, $Z_i=e(H(C),PK_L)^{t_i}$, $y_i=H(Z_i) \oplus sk_i$ and $PK_i=g^{sk_i}$.
The proof system needs to be non-malleable to prevent attacks in which the last party can induce a public key of which he knows the corresponding secret key; alternatively, a standard non-interactive Schnorr's proof must be attacked to each partial public key $PK_i$.

This requires a NIZK proof of computation of exponentiation in the target group. Notice that if a tuple $(PK_i,T_i,y_i)$ does not come with a valid proof, it will not be used for the computation of $PK$. 

